---
layout: post
title: Buy Till You Die Model
tags: [frontpage, jekyll, blog]
image: '/images/posts/shopping.jpg'
---


Churn prediction is difficult in a non-contractual setting. Users can
stop at any point in time and without notice.

Buy Till You Die Models are a family of models that aim to
model customer buying behavior as a series of distributions. The models
help quantify the lifetime value of a customer by assessing the
expected number of his future transactions and his probability
of being alive at any point in time.

Let's talk about 1 type

## The BG/NBD Model


The Beta Geometric/Negative Binomial Distribution was introduced in
2004 by Fader


Let's treat each customer buying behavior as a coin tossing game.

Each customer gets 2 coins.
1. A buy coin that controls the probability of a customer to purchase
2. A die coin that controls the probability of a customer to churn

Model assumptions:

1. The number of transactions follows a Poisson distribution with transaction rate λ
2. Heterogeneity in transaction rates λ among customers follows a Gamma distribution
3. A customer churns with probability p according to a Geometric distribution
4. Heterogeneity in probability p follows a Beta distribution


Model outputs

P(X(t) = x | λ, p)- the probability of observing x transactions in a time period of length t
E(X(t) | λ, p)- the expected number of transactions in a time period of length t
P(τ>t) - the probability of a customer becoming inactive at period τ




## Data

user_id
order_id
order_date
order_value

### Transformations

Recency (derived from tₓ): the age of the customer at the moment of his last purchase, which is equal to the duration between a customer’s first purchase and their last purchase.

Frequency (x): the number of periods in which the customer has made a repeat purchase.

Age of the customer (T): the age of the customer at the end of the period under study, which is equal to the duration between a customer’s first purchase and the last day in the dataset.




## References
https://towardsdatascience.com/predicting-customer-lifetime-value-with-buy-til-you-die-probabilistic-models-in-python-f5cac78758d9

https://towardsdatascience.com/customer-behavior-modeling-buy-til-you-die-models-6f9580e38cf4